---
layout: post
title: Introduction to Spring Web Development - 1
feature-img: "assets/img/feature-img/springboot.jpeg"
thumbnail: "assets/img/thumbnails/feature-img/boot.png"
tags: [Spring, Web Development, Introduction to Spring]
categories: Demo
---

This post is based on the course "Introduction to Spring - Learn Spring Boot, Web MVC, and DB Access Techniques with Code" by Younghan Kim, Inflearn.


## Spring Web Development Methods

Web development with Spring can be categorized into three main methods. There are static content, MVC, and API, and we'll take a quick look at each of them.


### Static Content

Let's start with the term static content, which in layman's terms is data that is intended to be deployed to the server as a page document, composed of HTML, etc., as it was designed, without any source transformations. For more information on static content, we recommend checking out the [Spring Boot documentation page](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.3.1.RELEASE/reference/html/spring-boot-features.html#boot-features-spring-mvc-static-content).

Deploying static content in Spring is very simple (I used IntelliJ IDEA for the example). First, let's create a new html document in the resources folder of our project.

{% include aligner.html images="posts/post_1/first_1.png" column=1 %}

In the newly created HTML document, insert the following code.

```html
<!DOCTYPE HTML>
<html>
<head>
 <title>static content</title>
 <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
</head>
<body>
Welcome to Static Content!
</body>
</html>
```

Let's put an html subdocument of resources and then run the main application to connect to localhost:8080.

{% include aligner.html images="posts/post_1/first_2.png" column=1 %}

If you check the page source, you'll see that the HTML document you just wrote is still there.

{% include aligner.html images="posts/post_1/first_3.png" column=1 %}

A overall representation of the process so far is shown above. When we receive a connection request from a client, the web browser forwards it to Spring Boot's built-in Tomcat server, which will first look for the controller in the container and, if it doesn't find it, browse the resources file. For static content, deployment is accomplished by delivering the file to the web browser as is.


### MVC Approach

Web development with Spring involves the separation of controllers and views. What would be the reason? In the past, web development was developed by integrating Views. However, if a View, which outputs a page, and a Controller, which contains content related to business logic, are included together, it becomes difficult to maintain and maintain them in the future. For this reason, nowadays development consists of two separate processes.


> Writing Controller, View 

First, let's put the following code in the Controller package subdocument.

```java
@Controller
public class HelloController {

   @GetMapping("hello-mvc")
   public String helloMvc(@RequestParam("name") String name, Model model) {
   
       model.addAttribute("name", name);
       return "hello-template";
 }
}
```

We've defined a function that returns a View document, hello-template. Next, let's write a Template package child document, hello-template.

```html
<html xmlns:th="http://www.thymeleaf.org">
<body>
<p th:text="'hello ' + ${name}">hello! empty</p>
</body>
</html>
```

Here, the value for "${name}" will be dynamically populated with an externally entered value. When you're done here and deploy, you should see a page like the one below.

{% include aligner.html images="posts/post_1/first_4.png" column=1 %}

You can see that we've given the key named name a value of 'spring!'' through the URL, and that's what we see on the screen.

{% include aligner.html images="posts/post_1/first_5.png" column=1 %}

A pictorial representation of the MVC approach is shown above. Unlike static content, the source of what is to be displayed on the screen is all within the container, and the html file returned by the controller is dynamically transformed through the template engine and delivered to the browser, rather than being delivered as is. You can think of it as a way to create pages that are interactive rather than one-way web pages.


### API Approach

The API approach is one of the most popular, along with the MVC approach. Similar to the MVC approach, you define a function in your Controller file with a @GetMapping and then add an @ResponseBody. The @ResponseBody allows the Tomcat server to return the BODY (not the BODY TAG) of the HTTP directly, bypassing the viewResolver.


> String Return

In Controller file, we'll enter the following function.

```java
@Controller
public class HelloController {

   @GetMapping("hello-string")
   @ResponseBody
   public String helloString(@RequestParam("name") String name) {
 
     return "hello " + name;
 }
}
```

You can see that it returns the character "hello" rather than returning a View file, and similarly, it indicates the input value of name via @RequestParam.

{% include aligner.html images="posts/post_1/first_6.png" column=1 %}

However, if you check the page source, you'll see that we didn't go through the View file, so we only see hello (value) and no other tags.


> Object Return

It is also possible to return an object for more versatility.

```java
Controller
public class HelloController {

   @GetMapping("hello-api")
   @ResponseBody
   public Hello helloApi(@RequestParam("name") String name) {
 
     Hello hello = new Hello();
     hello.setName(name);
     return hello;
     
   }
   
   static class Hello {
 
     private String name;
     public String getName() {
 
         return name;
         
   }
   
   public void setName(String name) {
 
     this.name = name;
 
 }
 }
}
```

This code defines a Hello function that returns a name via IntelliJ's getter and setter functionality and has it returned by a function in @ReponseBody. Similarly, it returns data to the web browser, not through the viewResolver. However, you can see that there is a difference in the page source we deployed compared to the function that returns a character.

{% include aligner.html images="posts/post_1/first_7.png" column=1 %}

It contains the key and value in JSON format. What you can see here is that if the @ReponseBody is an object, it will pass the data in JSON format, as opposed to if it is a character. This also allows you to adjust the return type of the controller to get a return in a format other than JSON, such as XML.