---
layout: post
title: Introduction to Spring Web Development - 3
feature-img: "assets/img/feature-img/springboot.jpg"
thumbnail: "assets/img/thumbnails/feature-img/boot.png"
tags: [Spring, Web Development, Introduction to Spring]
categories: spring
---

This post is based on the course "Introduction to Spring - Learn Spring Boot, Web MVC, and DB Access Techniques with Code" by Younghan Kim, Inflearn.

## Scanning components and setting up automatic dependencies

In order for all of the deliverables we've created to appear on the page, we need to set up a dependency. In other words, we need to make sure our member controller can sign up and retrieve data through our member service. First, let's create a member controller.

```java
package hello.hellospring.controller;

import hello.hellospring.service.MemberService;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Controller;

@Controller
public class MemberController {

   private final MemberService memberService;
 
   @Autowired
   public MemberController(MemberService memberService) {
 
     this.memberService = memberService;
 
   }
 
}
```

As shown above, you can add @Autowired to your controller's constructor to have Spring put the associated object into the Spring container. Injecting object dependencies externally in this way is called DI (Dependency Injection). There are three types of dependency injection: field injection, setter injection, and constructor injection. At many stages of development, we tend to opt for constructor injection. When you set up @Autowired, you'll need to do the same for the services and repository objects you want to connect to in addition to the member controllers.

```java
@Service
public class MemberService {

   private final MemberRepository memberRepository;
   
   @Autowired
   public MemberService(MemberRepository memberRepository) {
   
     this.memberRepository = memberRepository;
     
   }
   
}

@Repository
public class MemoryMemberRepository implements MemberRepository {}
```

The reason for annotating each object we want to use is to register it as a Spring bean. This is called component scanning because @Controller, @Service, and @Repository are all contained in @Component. This way, inside the Spring container, the MemberController, MemberService, and MemberRepository are all registered as the same instance of the Spring bean.

## Registering a Spring Bean directly with Java code

While the component scanning approach we've seen above is great for dealing with structured controller, service, and repository classes, there's an even better way to do it if you need to change your DB. It's a way to use Java code to register them directly as Spring beans, which means that a single Config class can change the dependencies without touching any other code. To do this, we'll create a single SpringConfig class in the Service package.

```java
package hello.hellospring;

import hello.hellospring.repository.MemberRepository;
import hello.hellospring.repository.MemoryMemberRepository;
import hello.hellospring.service.MemberService;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Bean;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Configuration;

@Configuration
public class SpringConfig {

   @Bean
   public MemberService memberService() {
 
     return new MemberService(memberRepository());
 
   }
 
   @Bean
   public MemberRepository memberRepository() {
 
     return new MemoryMemberRepository();

   }
   
}
```

The @Bean above allows you to register that object as a Spring bean. In other words, this method through the Config class acts as a replacement for the annotations on the service and repository objects you want to inject dependencies into, rather than objects like controllers. Objects that are registered as spring beans via @Bean will have dependency relationships established via @Autowired in the controller.